ci/README.md, before:

# Workflows in this repository

## Verify group review
This workflow requires PRs to have an additional label before they can be merged into the main branch.  Currently the label is `group_review_lgtm`, which is intended to be issued once the PR has been through a group review.


## Verify PR has JIRA ticket and issue number
This workflow is designed to enforce requirements for PR descriptions.  At bare minimum it requires the PR to mention a related issue and mention the Jira Ticket number.  Both of these are required since Sync2Jira does not know how to associate a PR with a Jira Ticket from the originating GitHub issue.


## Update parent issue
The idea behind this workflow is to keep Jira tickets in sync with the current status of their GitHub issue.  A flowchart for how this works can be seen below.

![flow chart for PR labelling workflow](images/pr_labelling.jpg)

This workflow does not work with forked repositories, since the `GITHUB_TOKEN` provided by GitHub runner will not have write access to the base repository unless the pull request originated from the base repository.

Commit message:

Docs(ci): Add example of GitHub CLI adding a label to a pr

ci/README.md, after:

# Workflows in this repository

## Verify group review
This workflow requires PRs to have an additional label before they can be merged into the main branch.  Currently the label is `group_review_lgtm`, which is intended to be issued once the PR has been through a group review.

This can be done via the GitHub CLI by using the command
`gh pr edit <PR NUMBER> --add-label group_review_lgtm`.


## Verify PR has JIRA ticket and issue number
This workflow is designed to enforce requirements for PR descriptions.  At bare minimum it requires the PR to mention a related issue and mention the Jira Ticket number.  Both of these are required since Sync2Jira does not know how to associate a PR with a Jira Ticket from the originating GitHub issue.


## Update parent issue
The idea behind this workflow is to keep Jira tickets in sync with the current status of their GitHub issue.  A flowchart for how this works can be seen below.

![flow chart for PR labelling workflow](images/pr_labelling.jpg)

This workflow does not work with forked repositories, since the `GITHUB_TOKEN` provided by GitHub runner will not have write access to the base repository unless the pull request originated from the base repository.
