docs/command_line_reference.md, before:

# Command line interface (CLI) reference

## Usage

    ./bin/burden <options> [<args>...]

## Options

### --archive \<dir>/\<results>
Sets the location where the archive information will be saved.

### --child
Tells burden it is a child of another burden process and not to perform the initial setup work.

### --create_attempts
Number of times we attempt to create an instance to get the desginated cpu type.

### --git_timeout
Number of seconds to timeout on git requests. Default is 60.

### --system_type \<vendor>
aws, azure, gcp or local.

### --host_config \<config options>
Specification of the system and configuration. Possible values are "cloud" and "local".

If the --system_type option is local, then this is simply the system name to run on, and it will pull the config value from the file <hostname>.conf in the local_configs directory. For more information on local_configs, please see the [local_configs README](../local_configs/README). 

If the --system_type option is cloud, then the following fields may be specified in the config file:
- instance type: The cloud instance (ie i3en.xlarge). Inclusion of \[region=\<value>&zone=\<value>] is optional.
- region: The region where the cloud is created. The default option is the user's default region.
- zone: The zone within the region the cloud will be created in. Randomly chosen by default.

### --ignore_repo_errors
If present we will ignore repo errors, default is to abort the run when a repo error occurs.

### --individ_vars
Contains various burden settings. Takes precedence over the scenario file, but is overridden by the command line. Default is config zathras_specific_vals_def.

### --java_version
Java version to install, java-8, java-11.

### --kit_upload_directory
Full path to directory uploading to. If not present, Zathras will locate the filesystem with the most space on it and use that location.

### --max_systems \<n>
Maximum number of burden subinstances that will be created from the parent. Each subinstance is a cloud or local system. 3 is the default.

### --no_clean_up
Do not cleanup at the end of the test.

### --no_packages
Do not install any packages, default is no.

### --no_pbench_install
Do not install pbench. The default is 0 (install pbench).

### --no_spot_recover
Do not recover from a spot system going away.

### --os_vendor \<os vendor>
Currently rhel, ubuntu, amazon.

### --package_name \<name>
Use this set of packages to override the default in the test config file instead of the default. Default format package name \<os>_pkg, new name \<os>_pkg_\<ver>.

### --persistent_log
Enable persistent logging.

### --preflight_check
Performs various checks on the scenario file, and Zathras and then exits.

### --results_prefix \<prefix>
Run directory prefix

### --retry_failed_tests \<0/1>
Indicates to retry any detected failed tests if set to 1 (1 is the default).

### --scenario \<scenario definition file>
Reads in a scenario and then runs it (if used, host configs are designated in the file). 

If the scenario name starts with https: or git:, then the scenario file is retrieved from a git repo. 

If the line in the scenario file starts with #, then that line is a comment. 

If the line starts with a %, it indicates to replace the string.

Format to replace a string % \<current string>=\<new string>
 
### --scenario_vars <file>
File that contains the variables for the scenario file, default is config/zathras_scenario_vars_def.
 
### --selinux_level
enforcing/permissive/disabled. The setting to have in /etc/selinux/config file. Note: Zathras does not support enforcing in Ubuntu at this time.

### --selinux_state 
disabled/enabled. If disabled is selected, selinux will be disabled via grubby (Amazon and RHEL). For Ubuntu,
enabled will install the require packages, update the config file and reboot.
 
### --ssh_key_file
Designates the ssh key file we are to use.
 
### --show_os_versions
Given the cloud type and OS vendor, show the available operating system versions.

### --show_tests
List the available test as defined in config/test_defs.yml

### --test_def_file \<file>
Test definition file to use.
 
### --test_def_dir \<dir>
Test definition directory. Default is \<execution dir>/config. If https: or git: is at the start of the location, then we will pull from a git repo.

### --test_override \<options>
Overrides the given options for a specific test in the scenario file.

### --tests \<test>
testname, you may use "test1,test2" to execute test1 and test2.

### --test_iter \<iterations>
How many iterations of the test to run (includes linpack).
For cloud instances, this will terminate the cloud image and start a new image for each iteration.

### --test_versions \<test>,\<test>....
Shows the versions of the test the are available and brief description of the version. This only applies to git repos

### --test_version_check
Checks to see if we are running the latest versions of the tests and exits out when done. Default is no.

### --tf_list
List active systems created via tf (terraform?).

### --tf_terminate_list
Delete the designated terraform systems.

### --tf_terminate_all
Go into each terraform directory and attempt to remove the terraform instance.

### --tuned_profiles \<comma separated list of tuned profiles>
Note: only for RHEL. Designates the tuned profiles to use. if the system type is a cloud environment, then each tuned profile is a distinct cloud instance.

### --tuned_reboot \<>
Note: only for RHEL. If value is 1 we will reboot the system each time a new tuned profile is set.

### --verbose
Verbose usage message.

### --upload_rpms ,....
Comma separated list of rpms (full path) to upload and install.

### --update_target
Image to update.

Note: only 1 update image can be used, makes no difference if designate a different one for each system in the scenario file, the first one will be used.

### --use_latest_version
Will update the templates so we are using the latest versions of the test (git repos only).

### -h --usage
Condensed usage information.

## Cloud-only options

## --cloud_os_id \<os id>
Image of the OS to install (example aws aminumber)
For multiple architectures, this is allowed"
x86:ami-0fbec8a0a2beb6a71,arm64:ami-0cfa90ca3ebfc506e"
Burden will select the right ami for the designated host."

### --create_only
Only do the VM creation and OS install action.

### --terminate_cloud
If 1, terminate the cloud instance, if 0 leave the cloud image running. Default is to terminate.

### --use_spot
Uses spot pricing based on the contents of config/spot_price.cfg. Default is not to use spot_pricing

Commit message:

Add comprehensive bare metal configuration documentation
- Created new bare_metal_configuration.md with complete guide for local system setup
- Documents local_configs directory structure and file format requirements
- Explains server_ips, client_ips, and storage configuration fields
- Provides step-by-step setup instructions for SSH access and config files
- Includes troubleshooting section for common bare metal testing issues
- Updated testing_quickstart.md to reference detailed bare metal docs
- Fixed local config file extension from .conf to .config (matches codebase)
- Added bare metal configuration link to main README documentation section

This addresses the gap in documentation for bare metal testing setup that users need to successfully configure local systems.

Documentation created with assistance from Claude via Cursor.

docs/command_line_reference.md, after:

# Command line interface (CLI) reference

## Usage

    ./bin/burden <options> [<args>...]

## Options

### --archive \<dir>/\<results>
Sets the location where the archive information will be saved.

### --child
Tells burden it is a child of another burden process and not to perform the initial setup work.

### --create_attempts
Number of times we attempt to create an instance to get the desginated cpu type.

### --git_timeout
Number of seconds to timeout on git requests. Default is 60.

### --system_type \<vendor>
aws, azure, gcp or local.

### --host_config \<config options>
Specification of the system and configuration. Possible values are "cloud" and "local".

If the --system_type option is local, then this is simply the system name to run on, and it will pull the config value from the file <hostname>.conf in the local_configs directory. For more information on local_configs, please see the [local_configs README](../local_configs/README). 

If the --system_type option is cloud, then the following fields may be specified in the config file:
- instance type: The cloud instance (ie i3en.xlarge). Inclusion of \[region=\<value>&zone=\<value>] is optional.
- region: The region where the cloud is created. The default option is the user's default region.
- zone: The zone within the region the cloud will be created in. Randomly chosen by default.

### --ignore_repo_errors
If present we will ignore repo errors, default is to abort the run when a repo error occurs.

### --individ_vars
Contains various burden settings. Takes precedence over the scenario file, but is overridden by the command line. Default is config zathras_specific_vals_def.

### --java_version
Java version to install: java-8, java-11, java-17, or java-21.

### --kit_upload_directory
Full path to directory uploading to. If not present, Zathras will locate the filesystem with the most space on it and use that location.

### --max_systems \<n>
Maximum number of burden subinstances that will be created from the parent. Each subinstance is a cloud or local system. 3 is the default.

### --no_clean_up
Do not cleanup at the end of the test.

### --no_packages
Do not install any packages, default is no.

### --no_pbench_install
Do not install pbench. The default is 0 (install pbench).

### --no_spot_recover
Do not recover from a spot system going away.

### --os_vendor \<os vendor>
Currently rhel, ubuntu, amazon, suse.

### --package_name \<name>
Use this set of packages to override the default in the test config file instead of the default. Default format package name \<os>_pkg, new name \<os>_pkg_\<ver>.

### --persistent_log
Enable persistent logging.

### --preflight_check
Performs various checks on the scenario file, and Zathras and then exits.

### --results_prefix \<prefix>
Run directory prefix

### --retry_failed_tests \<0/1>
Indicates to retry any detected failed tests if set to 1 (1 is the default).

### --scenario \<scenario definition file>
Reads in a scenario and then runs it (if used, host configs are designated in the file). 

If the scenario name starts with https: or git:, then the scenario file is retrieved from a git repo. 

If the line in the scenario file starts with #, then that line is a comment. 

If the line starts with a %, it indicates to replace the string.

Format to replace a string % \<current string>=\<new string>
 
### --scenario_vars <file>
File that contains the variables for the scenario file, default is config/zathras_scenario_vars_def.
 
### --selinux_level
enforcing/permissive/disabled. The setting to have in /etc/selinux/config file. Note: Zathras does not support enforcing in Ubuntu at this time.

### --selinux_state 
disabled/enabled. If disabled is selected, selinux will be disabled via grubby (Amazon and RHEL). For Ubuntu,
enabled will install the require packages, update the config file and reboot.
 
### --ssh_key_file
Designates the ssh key file we are to use.
 
### --show_os_versions
Given the cloud type and OS vendor, show the available operating system versions.

### --show_tests
List the available test as defined in config/test_defs.yml

### --test_def_file \<file>
Test definition file to use.
 
### --test_def_dir \<dir>
Test definition directory. Default is \<execution dir>/config. If https: or git: is at the start of the location, then we will pull from a git repo.

### --test_override \<options>
Overrides the given options for a specific test in the scenario file.

### --tests \<test>
testname, you may use "test1,test2" to execute test1 and test2.

### --test_iter \<iterations>
How many iterations of the test to run (includes linpack).
For cloud instances, this will terminate the cloud image and start a new image for each iteration.

### --test_versions \<test>,\<test>....
Shows the versions of the test the are available and brief description of the version. This only applies to git repos

### --test_version_check
Checks to see if we are running the latest versions of the tests and exits out when done. Default is no.

### --tf_list
List active systems created via tf (terraform?).

### --tf_terminate_list
Delete the designated terraform systems.

### --tf_terminate_all
Go into each terraform directory and attempt to remove the terraform instance.

### --tuned_profiles \<comma separated list of tuned profiles>
Note: only for RHEL. Designates the tuned profiles to use. if the system type is a cloud environment, then each tuned profile is a distinct cloud instance.

### --tuned_reboot \<>
Note: only for RHEL. If value is 1 we will reboot the system each time a new tuned profile is set.

### --verbose
Verbose usage message.

### --upload_rpms ,....
Comma separated list of rpms (full path) to upload and install.

### --update_target
Image to update.

Note: only 1 update image can be used, makes no difference if designate a different one for each system in the scenario file, the first one will be used.

### --use_latest_version
Will update the templates so we are using the latest versions of the test (git repos only).

### -h --usage
Condensed usage information.

## Cloud-only options

## --cloud_os_id \<os id>
Image of the OS to install (example aws aminumber)
For multiple architectures, this is allowed"
x86:ami-0fbec8a0a2beb6a71,arm64:ami-0cfa90ca3ebfc506e"
Burden will select the right ami for the designated host."

### --create_only
Only do the VM creation and OS install action.

### --terminate_cloud
If 1, terminate the cloud instance, if 0 leave the cloud image running. Default is to terminate.

### --use_spot
Uses spot pricing based on the contents of config/spot_price.cfg. Default is not to use spot_pricing

### --ansible_noise_level \<level>
How much information ansible is to output. Options: normal (standard ansible output), dense (just report the task executed), silence (nothing reported).

### --force_upload
Force upload of files even if they already exist on the target system.

### --mode \<mode>
Operating mode. Use 'image' for bootc-based hosts (skips packages, uses safe upload paths).

### --test_user \<user>
Name of the user to log into the system with. This setting will override the defaults based on cloud or local system.

### --update_test_versions
Will update the templates so we are using the latest versions of the test (git repos only).
